[Music]
travel by airplane is by far the fastest
but not the most comfortable way to go
it wasn't always like this though
getting to lie down in a spacious bed
seat check full hot meals bars and even
pianos on board also check so what else
has changed in the past 100 years of
human flight the first airplane ever was
the Wright Flyer made by the Wright
brothers in 1903 it made just a few
short flights but those change history
forever years past and more diverse
airplanes appeared but the first
commercial airplane in history was the
model 14 Benoist airport
it took passengers from st. Petersburg
to Tampa in Florida making the journey a
dozen times shorter than by train or
steamboat it was a rather small biplane
and no more than a toy compared to
today's huge airliners but back in 1914
it was a great commercial success but
the true golden era of commercial
flights began in the 1950s let's take a
look at one of the most typical
airliners of the time the douglas dc-6
it was a piston powered aircraft with
four propellers that allowed the
cruising speed of about 300 miles per
hour with the size of it 100 feet long
and almost 10 feet wide it's a bit
surprising that it only accommodated 48
passengers for comparison modern Airbus
a320 is just 20 feet longer and two feet
wider but easily fits 150 passengers on
board like sardines
hey the difference is all inside like
all of its contemporaries the douglas
dc-6 was pretty much luxurious
the seats were big and comfortable with
plenty of legroom they also had seat
backs that could go all the way down so
you could take a hearty nap if you
wanted to economy class didn't emerge
until mid 1950s but even then the meals
on board would be today's chicken or
fish a hundred times over there was a
real menu and you could order whatever
you wanted be it a ribeye steak or
smoked salmon served on real plates
speaking of which flight attendants were
more of serving staff than anything else
similar to modern personnel but called
stewardesses back then they had a strict
dress code but their main task was not
to ensure safety but to entertain and
serve the passengers
no wonder flying was still relatively
new back then and it wasn't cheap the
average price of a domestic ticket would
cost you a month's wages and a
transatlantic flight was a luxury for
the richest passengers would dress up
for the flight as if they were attending
a social event came in a sense they were
socializing was in fact the only
entertainment on board apart from
reading books or newspapers and
unlimited food and drinks were included
in the price
sounds much better than sitting in a
cramped space and not having enough room
to stretch your legs
but today's airplanes have much more to
offer in terms of entertainment personal
screens with lots of movies TV shows and
even games magazines to read and of
course onboard shopping some airlines
have special entertainment apps you can
download on your phone or tablet and
connect to using in-flight Wi-Fi now
flying itself in the 1950s was not the
most pleasant of things either
like I mentioned earlier airplanes had
piston powered engines just like cars so
their speed and altitude were limited
the same Douglas dc-6 could only reach
the maximum speed of 360 miles per hour
and its ceiling was 20,000 feet modern
jet airplanes usually fly at about 480
miles per hour climbing as high as
39,000 feet above the ground low
altitudes of the old airplanes meant
stronger and more frequent turbulence if
it were today you'd probably get scared
especially if the airplane dropped a few
hundred feet but you'd come to no harm
at all with your seatbelt on back in the
day though fastening your seatbelt
wasn't mandatory even a takeoff not to
mention during the flight so when an
airplane hit a patch of turbulence its
passengers would more often than not be
caught off guard the shaking was so
powerful at times that people would be
thrown around the cabin like rag dolls
which led to injuries the engines were
also awfully loud the propellers and
engines roared together to create enough
lift and push the aircraft forward ever
ridden in a car at its top speed with an
open window the sounded engine mix can
be ear-splitting and that's exactly what
happened with aircraft piston engines
the noise was as loud as a car's and
then self
[Music]
another distinctive feature of the old
airplanes were square windows we're all
used to them being rounded at the
corners but early piston powered planes
didn't need those smooth lines they flew
lower and slower than Jets and that made
all the difference when the first jet
powered airliners appeared though this
caused a lot of accidents square windows
are okay at relatively slow speed and
low altitude but when both these values
grow significantly
they simply break the difference in
pressures inside the cabin and outside
is high and it hit the windows the least
protected part of the plane hard they
were of course properly reinforced but
the engineers missed one crucial detail
the corners turned out to be the weakest
parts of the windows the pressure built
upon them and the fuselage around crack
sometimes breaking the window and
depressurising the whole plane as a
result so the problem was eventually
solved by making the windows around it
even seat design has changed a lot
toward safety although today's seats are
so close together that you have to keep
your elbows to your sides most of the
time loads of space you get in the 1950s
airplanes wouldn't have saved your life
in an emergency in modern aircraft seat
backs are made so that you don't injure
your head if a particularly strong shake
rumbles through the plane seats
themselves now absorb more energy and
remain firmly in place during an impact
in the past an accident could have torn
the seats from the floor so you
basically traded safety for comfort well
I'd stick the safety thank you very much
speaking of that you know takeoff and
landing are the most dangerous parts of
the flight right modern jet liners can
tackle almost any distance in one go so
if there's a direct flight to your
destination you'd only have one takeoff
and one landing in older planes
long-haul flights often required them to
make stops on the way for refueling and
maintenance take Qantas for instance in
1947 the Australian airline introduced a
route from Sydney to London today it
takes about
twenty two hours and one refuelling stop
or there's even a non-stop 17 hour
flight from Perth back then the flight
was much more leisurely four days with
six stops two of them overnight
would you rather fly in comfort for
several days or get wherever you're
going faster with fewer amenities let me
know down in the comments anyway
airplanes weren't the only means of air
travel though don't forget about
airships those were slow huge and often
dangerous the first airship appeared as
early as 1852 was propelled by a steam
engine and traveled at a speed of whoa
five miles per hour and the real age of
airships came in the early 20th century
when the German Zeppelin company made
their rigid passenger carrying dirigible
compared to the most prominent airship
of the time even airbus a380 the super
jumbo jet that dwarfs other airplanes in
size is like a fly to an elephant it's
240 feet long and 24 feet wide with two
decks 79 feet in height seems big
but the Hindenburg the 1936 airship of
the Zeppelin company is absolutely
enormous next to it its length was 804
feet with a width of 135 feet Hindenburg
could take as many as 72 passengers and
50 crew members across the skies at a
relaxing speed of 76 miles per hour
airships couldn't rival airplanes in
speed or passenger capacity but they
were comfortable and luxurious they
could have become a tourist thing kind
of like cruise ships if not for the 1937
disaster of that same Hindenburg over
New Jersey filled with hydrogen
combustible went boom bad news the
terrible accident was the alarm that
halted production of passenger airships
for many decades today though there's
plenty of talk about the return of the
giant dirigibles in about five years for
example the first airship will take a
hundred passengers on a North Pole
expedition it uses helium not
combustible no boom good news
and although it won't be much of an
expedition but rather a luxury cruise
for the wealthy the tickets cost $80,000
the new airship still marks the rebirth
of the great flying palaces hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right I don't care and remember stay on
the bright side of life